# CS255
CS255 Systems Analysis and Design

•	Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The DriverPass project was created for the owner of DriverPass, Liam, to take advantage of a void in the market when it comes to training students for the driving test at their local department of motor vehicles (DMV). The web-based system was designed for students to be able to purchase and schedule driving lessons, study online materials, and take practice tests. The system also keeps track of all 10 cars and 10 drivers, with drivers being able to leave comments for students to view about their completed lessons. The receptionist can also process payments for driving lessons, schedule driving lessons, and create and edit the students’ online profiles. 

•	What did you do particularly well?
I think I did well on understanding the client’s requirements for this project. I referenced the transcript of the original interview many times to make sure the system was exactly as how they described. It would have been nice to be able to ask questions or get a second interview with the client for the project, but I think I captured all of the requirements given pretty well. 

•	If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
I would definitely choose to revise my systems design document.  Making the different diagrams forced me to think through my logic of how the system should be designed, and I ended up modifying all of my diagrams multiple times. This is a normal part of designing a system, and highlights the importance of iteration when designing. I would have enjoyed making many more diagrams for this project, working out the logic of how the system works and what components are needed to build it. I feel like I could have then chosen the best diagrams to showcase the project for the design document, as I feel all of the diagrams I did create still need work, although I do understand there was a time constraint and I am a single person not an entire team.

•	How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I think one way that I interpreted the user’s needs was by creating different types of users that cater to the use case needs. For instance, reception and drivers can look up student information, and a driver can post driving notes. Drivers generally won’t be creating profiles and processing payments for students, but reception will be doing a lot of those activities. Giving different access to different users keeps the users experience catered to their needs without bogging them down with lots of unnecessary information and options. 

•	How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
I think the best way to approach designing software is to take specific user’s points of view and doing a very thorough requirements gathering and analysis. Up to a point, the more information you have to work with, the better quality system you can design. By using tools such as structural and behavioral diagrams it forces the logic to be shown of how a system operates. I am a fairly analytical person by default, but have struggled thus far with designing the ideas I have in my head. I have two specific projects I plan to work on after graduating next week, and I now feel like I will be able to build these projects even better. I will definitely be practicing my structural and behavioral diagrams to help me design, as well as stating my functional and nonfunctional requirements. I think understanding the design process is a valuable skill to have as a software developer. 
